---
title: "TIL - JavaScript Study"
layout: post
---

### Agenda
[1. The unique properties of JavaScript Datatypes](#data-types-on-javascript)

[2. Objects and Immutability on JavaScript](#objects-and-immutability-on-javascript)

[3. Configure and publish Jekyll themed blog on Github Pages](#configure-and-publish-jekyll-blog)


#### Data Types on JavaScript

- JavaScript does not require programmers to specify which data type will be stored in a variable by the time it is declared. 

- JS provides type conversion, to allow programmers to explicitly change the data type of certain variables. For instance, if there is a variable storing a number 5, this can be converted to String data type, which then would be considered as "5". There is a concept called type coercion as well, which basically mean the implicit type conversion when there is no explicit data type declaration on variables (https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Glossary/Type_coercion).

- === basically means the comparison operator (equality) without any type coersion. So, that means JS will not implicitly convert the type of operands that are being compared, which would be helpful for the accuracy of the comparison operation.

- Due to the nature of JS being loosely typed, this might cause us experience harder time to debug, since JS does not prevent us from having type errors in advance. We could use typeof() operator to check the type of the variable when we are in doubt, to avoid potential type error issues (Or, we could use TypeScript if we expect some type error pre-screening!)

- In JavaScript, null refers to the fact that certain variables do have "empty" values, and is referred as false. In contrast, undefined means that the variables do not exist, and is referred as true.

- Primitive Data Types, Number, String, Boolean, Null, Undefined, Symbols, are types of data that get stored on a stack. Whenever new variable uner Primitive Data Types is declared, the new memory space will be craeted on the stack, then the newly generated value will be stored in the memory space created. Since each value is stored in a different location on the stack, updating each value does not affect any other variables on the stack.

- Reference Data Types, Objects, Functions, Collections, Arrays, Dates, any type of Objects, do not have a fixed size in terms of memory size. Due to this dynamic property, reference data types will be stored differently than primitive data types. That is, different from primitive data types that are directly stored in a variable, reference data types will not store that data type into the variable directly. 

Instead, the variable now contains a pointer that locates the location of the reference data type stored somewhere (heap) in the computer memory. So, in short, the stack will store only the pointer, and heap stores the object itself, which are pointed by the pointers stored in the stack (this pointer is labeled by the name of their variables)

This is crucial - suppose we have a variable, named "test1", storing an object. Then, we would like to make a new variable, 'test2', and assign test2 to test1 (test2 = test1). In this case, this does not make two different obejcts. Instead, this results in both test2 and test1 pointing the same reference data type stored in the heap. So, if there is any change on either test1 or test2, it will incur the updates on both test1 and test2.

#### Hoisting and Temporary Dead Zone in JS

- When the computer executes JS codes, it takes a look at the lexical environment, where the declared variables and functions live during the execution period. So, even if the function and variable declaration did not occur before it is being called, JS can locate the function/variable declaration in the lexical environment. This is because var and function declarations are intiialized with undefined.

- However, let, const, and function expressions are hoisted, remaining uninitialized. So, if the declaration did not occur before it being called, it will throw the Reference Error.

- We can create an object immutable by using .freeze() method (https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object/freeze)

Because of this property, if we would like to copy a reference object like String or Array, we need to deep copy it (create a new object by allocating separate memory location, and then copy the content of the original object), instead of shallow copying (assigning an exisiting object to a new variable - this would only copy the pointer stored in the original variable).